Taxi & Cab Insurance
Taxi & Cab Insurance
Operating a Taxi or Cab service requires specialized insurance.  You are responsible for the safety of your passengers.  You will also need insurance that covers your vehicle(s) from damage or theft.  You also need to take into consideration how many drivers you have or plan to have. 

 

Lines Of Business
 
 Automobile Liability, Physical Damage, and General Liability

 

Liability Coverage/Limits
 
 Up to $1,000,000 CSL.
 Higher limits are available at the Underwriter’s discretion.

 

Physical Damage
 
 Minimum $500 deductible for comp/collision.
 Minimum stated value: $3,000
 Units older than 10 years requires Underwriting approval. A current mechanic’s statement and photograph may be required at your Underwriter's discretion.

 

Vehicles
 
 Sedans and minivans with capacity up to 7 passengers, excluding the driver.

 

Eligible Operations
 
 For-Hire transportation of passengers. Insured must be dispatched from or a member of a radio group of association, or possess a medallion.
 Demand-Response units with less than 24-hour prearranged pickup reservations.
 New venture individuals and partnerships are acceptable with résumé or letter of experience indicating how many years he/she has experience operating a similar vehicle type.
 In jurisdictions where owner-operators receive a discount, refer to the state-specific filing for eligibility and credit allowed.
 Double shifts are eligible with proof of a current formal maintenance program.

 

 

TAXI CAB AND DRIVER INSURANCE
 

Anyone who's owned this type of business can tell you that it's very competitive and complex.  We can help.  You will want to talk to an insurance professional in California who can help evaluate all of the moving parts and not only help you cover the necessary risks but also find where the discounts are.

Whether your Taxi business is located in the Los Angeles or San Diego area or Northern California near Fresno or the San Franscisco bay area, give is a call for a free consultation 888-254-0089  or use our secure form for a reliable quote.