 SAFE OPERATION BENEFITS EVERYONE
Effective risk management is critical to ensuring the success of your business. Our loss control team uses a proactive and collaborative approach, working with you to design a tailored solution to help enhance your safety culture and minimize losses. At the end of the day, this can improve your bottom line and protects the business you have worked hard to build.

You can expect more from our industry-leading loss control representatives: top-tier service, clearer communication and the kind of in-depth knowledge only gained from experience. They are conveniently stationed around the country to serve as local experts on requirements from individual states, DOT, FMCSA, OSHA and other organizations. Our team’s knowledge and skills are yours to leverage when building upon your safety culture, learning best practices and understanding new regulations or compliance mandates.

How Our Team Can Help

Loss Control Field Representatives

Loss Control Dashboard

Safety Summits

Leveraging Telematics

Product & Service Solutions

Pre-packaged Safety Meetings
Loss Control Field Representatives
Gain access to Loss Control Representatives who collaborate with you to identify safety needs and develop tailored solutions. You can expect your representative to spend time getting to know your organization, performing on-site safety visits and analyzing losses. This lays the foundation for us to help you find root causes, identify exposures and develop customized solutions that fit your operation.
In Their Own Words
Listen to our insureds and corporate leaders explain how we help transform safety operations and outcomes through the various resources provided by our expert in-house Loss Control Services team.  

Man talking to camera
ARTICLES AND RESOURCES
Read more from our team about best practices, industry insights and relevant program information.

View All
WHEELCHAIR & PASSENGER HANDLING BEST PRACTICES FOR DRIVERS
This white paper was co-authored by the experts at Driverge Vehicle Innovations, National Interstate, and Vanliner Insurance. Through our…

Read More
SEATBELT SAFETY TIPS FOR NEMT & PARATRANSIT OPERATORS
This white paper was co-authored by the experts at Driverge Vehicle Innovations, National Interstate Insurance, and Vanliner Insurance. Through our…

Read More
TIPS TO IMPROVE WORKERS' COMPENSATION OUTCOMES
You rely on your employees to perform challenging and often strenuous jobs. Your employees are the backbone of the industry and the key to its…

Read More