aratransit Insurance Nemt Transportation Insurance | Non-Emergency Transportation
Paratransit Insurance
Nemt Transportation Insurance | Non-Emergency Transportation | NEMT Insurance  | Paratransit Insurance

 

Give us a call today 888-254-0089  or use our secure form for a free quote.

Running a paratransit company in California comes with it's share of risks.  You are in the business of helping people but you have to prepare for the unexpected.  Your passengers are handicaped or have special needs which creates additional risks and responsibilities.  You also need to determine how much coverage is enough.  There are a number of factors involved: how many drives you have, the number of customers and the length of your routes.

 

Lines Of Business
General Liability
Auto Liability (commercial)
Including One Way Coverage for Accidents
Worker’s Compensation
Property Damage
Professial Liability With Retroactive Coverage
Sexual Abuse and Molestation Coverages
Excess Liabilty Up to 20,000,000
Director and Officers Liability
Crime
 
 Automobile Liability, Physical Damage, and General Liability

 

Liability Coverage/Limits
 
 Up to $5,000,000 CSL
 Higher limits are available at the Underwriter's discretion with excess up to $20,000,000

 

Physical Damage
 
 Minimum $500 deductible for comp/collision.
 Minimum stated value: $10,000
 Stated values greater than $250,000 must be reinsured.
 Terminal exposures greater than $1,000,000 in total values will be reinsured.
 Units older than 10 years requires Underwriting approval. A current mechanic's statement and photograph may be required at your Underwriter's discretion.

 

Vehicles
 
 Sedans and vans with seating capacity up to 14 passengers.
 Units may be equipped with wheelchair ramps or lifts.
 Vehicles must have proper tie-downs for wheelchairs while in transport.
 Vehicles must display written procedures for loading and unloading passengers in wheelchairs.
 Surcharges may apply for vehicles with wheelchair access.

 

Eligible Operations
 
 For-Hire transportation of patients on a contract or demand-response basis
 Medicars & Ambulettes
 Vehicles owned and operated by social service organizations, or medical facilities, used to transport their clients/patients.
 Eligibility for rating under this classification requires a minimum 85% revenue from these types of operations. Not more than 15% can come from a taxi exposure. Contracts and/or financials may be requested for verification.
 Insured must conform to all laws regarding having matrons/aides on vehicles.
 Patients must be belted in and strapped securely.

 

 

General Liability
Auto Liability (commercial)
Including One Way Coverage for Accidents
Worker’s Compensation
Property Damage
Director and Officers Liability
Crime
 

 

 Operations that require indepth approval below:
 Ambulances or emergency vehicles equipped with lights and sirens.
 Risks that provide any medical, paramedical or first-aid service.
 Risks that transport oxygen.

 

 

 

 

Our team is made up of experts in transportation insurance.  We can help you evaluate the special risks you face running a paratransit company so you have the right insurance, the right company and the right amount. 

 

Give us a call today 888-254-0089  or use our secure form for a free quote.

 

 

 

non emergency medical transport insurance commercial auto insurance and general liability insurance